[Music]
yeah I think it's obvious that
smartphones are everywhere and can do a
lot of things and even a few that they
probably shouldn't like trying to
perform a do-it-yourself colonoscopy
with your smartphone hey take it from me
it won't work there are much safer ways
to snoop on your colon health meanwhile
to keep you surfing on the web and
safety I've collected a list of other
things you should never do with your
phone laptop or other devices number one
using cheap chargers if you lose or
damage your device's charger you might
not want to shell out the full amount
for a replacement finding a less
expensive alternative might seem like a
smart move but do some research before
you buy there are plenty of quality
third-party chargers available for a
reasonable price and just as many cheap
knockoffs that can and will damage your
battery keep an extra eye out for
counterfeit chargers if you have an
extra eye to spare these are often
poorly made and can fry your phone if
you aren't careful
in rare cases people have been injured
when their knockoff chargers caused a
short circuit number two ignoring
updates updates include things like bug
fixes security upgrades and improvements
to the user interface they play an
essential role in making sure your
device still runs like new if you're
having performance stability or
compatibility problems with your apps or
devices make sure you're using the
latest version of all your software
ignoring security updates can also make
you vulnerable to hackers when your
device says it's time for an update you
might want to take its word for it
number three
leaving Bluetooth and Wi-Fi on if you
use these features often you probably
leave them turned on all the time
but not only are you wasting power
you're also exposing your device to
added security risks think of these
connections like doors leading to your
data that the more you leave open the
easier it is for thief to break in
Bluetooth is extra dangerous because it
relies on low-power radio waves which
are easier to intercept
tamper with than other types of wireless
signals for using public Wi-Fi the best
things in life are free or so the old
saying goes whoever coined that phrase
probably didn't have Wi-Fi in mine when
they came up with it
free Wi-Fi is dangerous for the simple
reason that anyone can access it and
anyone includes cyber criminals trying
to steal your identity or sell your data
many public Wi-Fi networks are
unencrypted meaning that hackers can
easily ease drop on what you're doing
that includes sensitive data like
passwords emails and bank account
information some hackers have also been
known to impersonate legitimate Wi-Fi
networks to steal your information
bad bad number five
leaving your phone unlock if someone
else gets access to your phone
they have complete access to your
contacts photos text messages and call
history they can also get their hands on
dangerous Intel like your saved
passwords leaving your phone unlocked is
like leaving your doors unlock when you
go out you better keep it secured unless
you want someone to walk off with all of
your electronic furniture number six
eating or drinking near your laptop
multitasking is pretty much mandatory in
modern life but lunch and laptops don't
mix if you get crumbs in your keyboard
it's extremely hard to get them out
drinks are even worse spill something on
your keyboard and you're in big trouble
if you're lucky it will only make the
keys sticky and unresponsive if you're
not the moisture might get into
something important and turn your
expensive computer into a useless lump
of plastic number seven keeping your
phone in your back pocket phones don't
do well under pressure and I mean that
literally they weren't designed to be
sat on something that's bound to happen
if you keep your device tucked into your
back pocket sitting on or putting any
other kind of weight on your phone is a
great way to damage it and that goes
double for the screen even if you never
see any cracks sitting on the display
can still damage
internally this can cause blurry images
or even blank spots to appear on the
screen so make sure there's no buts
about it number eight
leaving disks in your laptop now I
probably only use my laptop's disk drive
one or three times a year but it's still
nice to have if you suddenly become the
owner of some disk based media just make
sure you don't leave it in your laptop
when you're carrying it around this can
lead to the discs falling out of its
tray and getting jammed in the disk
drive damaging both the disk and the
computer itself for the same reason you
should also avoid tilting your laptop
while the disk is spinning number nine
letting your phone overheat when you
exercise your body heats from all the
calories you're burning okay that's not
exactly true what your body does heat up
when you exert yourself your phone is
the same way and it can't cool down with
a glass of water it isn't likely to melt
in your hands but high temperatures can
be damaging to the internal components
the battery is especially vulnerable and
high temperatures can permanently
decrease its ability to hold a charge if
you ever notice your phone is getting
too hot dunk it in some water ah you
were listening after all no water and
phones don't mix to cool the thing down
turn it off for a few minutes and let it
you know chill you'll thank yourself
when you aren't having to replace the
battery every few months number 10
leaving your laptop in your car have you
ever left a chocolate bar in your car
and all that was left with some warm
brown goo
believe it or not the same thing can
happen to your laptop if you leave it in
a hot car it might not liquefy but on a
summer day your car can get more than
hot enough to melt plastic and damage
the internal components leaving it in
the snow isn't good either the liquid
crystals in your laptop's LCD screen
will freeze at temperatures below zero
degrees Fahrenheit this can permanently
damage your screen number eleven using
your phone when it's charging
imagine you're watching a fantastic
video by Brightside man that should be
hard to do right as the narrator's about
to reveal the secret of eternal
happiness your screen goes black not
wanting to miss a second of quality
content you plug your phone in and
continue watching we've all done this
but it might not be the best idea for
starters most of the power goes to the
screen and CPU instead of being stored
in the battery meaning it will take
longer to charge to 100% this also
generates a lot more heat than normal
which can damage your phone's battery
number 12 never turning it off phones
and laptops need breaks too and just
because we call it sleep mode doesn't
mean it's rustic Apple recommends
turning your device all the way off at
least once a week and Android
manufacturers give similar warnings
shutting it down every night when you go
to sleep reduces wear and tear on the
battery and increases performance by
resetting your background apps number 13
putting your laptop on your bed laptops
give you all the functions of a desktop
computer wherever and whenever you need
it but if that wherever includes your
bed you might be damaging your computer
computer stay cool by letting air move
through them most laptops have their air
intakes on the bottom so resting your
laptop on a soft surface like a pillow
or blanket restricts the air flow making
it heat up faster it also turns your
laptop into a vacuum cleaner pulling in
all the lint dust and loose fibers these
surfaces collect all that gunk can clog
the vents and fan if the fan gets jammed
it can burn out and will need to be
replaced
number 14 using counterfeit SD cards SD
cards are a great way to expand your
phone or laptop storage capacity there
are also a handy way to backup your data
in case anything goes wrong with your
device just make sure you're getting
them from a trustworthy source
counterfeit SD cards are everywhere and
can cause all sorts of problems most are
poorly made and rarely
store as much as promised people have
also experienced slowing down crashes
and lost data from using counterfeit
cards number 15 installing apps from
unknown sources you wouldn't just let
any random stranger into your house and
the same applies to phones tablets and
PCs third-party downloads can be
crawling with malware and other viruses
which you obviously don't want to have
slithering around on your device also
keep an eye out for paid apps that are
free on third party websites as these
apps are probably pirated copies in
addition to the legal reasons you should
stay away pirated apps won't always work
correctly also the apps original creator
may still be able to lock you out of
certain features so a word to the wise
don't do these enough sad hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
right-side up